833aaea235cd64abbbaf2cc2c70e6cf6e4423ca4 216 216 1
author System Systems
author-mail <systems@example.com>
author-time 1789170111
author-tz -0500
committer System Systems
committer-mail <systems@example.com>
committer-time 1789170111
committer-tz -0500
summary feat(proof): freeze Sprint 195 closeout contracts and current runtime pointer
previous 38eb20c4d7e08f32cad77bb4e6eaf71441d07c19 configs/agent/policy.json
filename configs/agent/policy.json
	      "description": "Certify the Forge NormalizedVizSpec returned by viz.render. Returns coverage, a measured conformant result, findings, and four pillars: a11yEquivalence, determinism, contrast and accuracy. Read-only: it reads the IR and the matching data operand without rebuilding or recommending a chart.\n\nDECLARED COVERAGE. The five Cartesian types certify from the IR alone. The eight ECharts-primary types certify under the declared operand profile when the same data branch used by viz.render is supplied. ECharts conformance requires a11yEquivalence:'pass', contrast neither 'fail' nor 'ungradeable', stable determinism, and accuracy:'pass' with rulesEvaluated > 0 and no detected distortion. A certified chart can be conformant:false; inspect the pillars and findings. No Vega-Lite compile is added to the ECharts profile. Spec-only ECharts calls remain coverage:'uncertified' with conformant:null and notes naming the missing operand. Unmodeled marks remain explicitly uncertified.\n\nDATA. An ECharts-primary IR carries metadata; nodes, links, rows and geometry live in its original branch. Supply exactly the matching hierarchy, sankey, chord, network or geo branch as data. The tool validates it against the mark trait. Data on a Cartesian IR is OODS-V123 because those charts certify from their IR. HTML or invalid IR is OODS-V126.\n\nACCESSIBILITY. The 16 equivalence rules evaluate the operand-built table and narrative. Error-severity failures fail the ECharts pillar and conformance. Warnings stay visible without failing the pillar. Findings keep their native severity. a11yNotApplicable lists rules whose declared preconditions were absent; absence is not a meaningful pass. This channel is present when the ECharts engine completed, including [] if no rule was inapplicable, and absent for spec-only, Cartesian or incomplete engine evaluations. A completed engine with an individual rule fault retains its findings and not-applicable results while failing the pillar. An evaluator fault cannot produce a passing accessibility pillar.\n\nACCURACY. Cartesian rules read the IR and compiled spec: non-zero bar baseline (V150), dual axis (V151), area scaling (V152), undisclosed aggregation (V153). ECharts rules read data: invalid hierarchy values/non-additive parents (V154/V155); invalid sankey/chord link values (V156); inconsistent sankey node throughput/duplicate links (V157/V158); conflicting choropleth join values (V159); negative or non-finite bubble size (OODS-V168), radius-based bubble scaling (OODS-V169), conflicting rows at the same bubble coordinates (OODS-V170), negative or non-finite flow strength (OODS-V171), duplicate directed geographic flows (OODS-V172), and duplicate directed force-graph links (OODS-V173). Reciprocal graph links and reciprocal geographic flows are distinct. Bubble scaling reads the public renderer's default linear size behavior; certification does not repair its pixels. accuracyRules lists offered codes, while accuracySummary counts only rules whose preconditions resolved. Pass means no offered rule detected its distortion, not a general promise of accuracy; zero evaluated ECharts rules is unchecked and cannot yield conformant:true.\n\nDETERMINISM. Two independent compiler/adapter emissions are compared and rendered independently. contentHash identifies the first canonical compiled spec or projected ECharts option; renderHash identifies its normalized SVG and matches viz.render for the same operand/scope. Stable requires both identities to repeat. A first-render fault keeps contentHash, omits renderHash and fails stability. A bubble_map without inline geometry keeps the option proof, omits renderHash and names the no-server-map limitation. Proof is bounded by packages/viz-render/certified-matrix.json and covers certify's own rendering, not a caller's rendering.\n\nCONTRAST. Cartesian charts and ECharts calls with data grade actual rendered paints. Role C checks mark-to-canvas WCAG 3:1; Role A checks categorical CIEDE2000 distinguishability across normal vision and three CVD simulations, retaining recycled-palette duplicates. Missing baked OODS palette bytes cannot produce contrast:'pass'. The three geo families retain the standing contrast exemption with their render evidence; this includes ordinal bubble maps. Spec-only ECharts calls retain the reconstructed palette grade and caveat. Cartesian conformance still fails for fail or ungradeable contrast/accuracy; unchecked and exempt retain their existing semantics. Read every pillar's enum, including ungradeable. contrastResults reports the requested theme/brand and measurement evidence; exemptions do not claim a canvas ratio.\n\nSCOPE. Theme light|dark|hc and brand A|B select the same CSS scope as rendering, default light/A. HC contrast returns exempt, measured:false and reason:forced-colors, with no numeric grade. Accessibility, accuracy and determinism retain their normal evaluation; an actual HC render failure fails determinism and conformance. Four Cartesian types have HC SVG proof; heatmap and the eight ECharts-primary types retain measured undeclared-paint failures. After a release that changes a schema or verdict, reconnect clients that cache tool descriptions and schemas.",
